---
layout: post
title: "Afterthought 4: Synthetic Violets"
date: 2025-12-21
--- 
Expectation kills quality. The moment you set your expectations for things or experiences, you’re determining a standard by which you’ll accept how the thing gets done or how the experience turns out. Not only are you imposing them to work a certain way, you're also ultering the natural flow of unfolding of the event or the experience. You walk into it with a heart full of attachment and a mind full of prejudice. Expectations are the direct links to the external world. And from what we know of externals, they are not under our control, and are subjects to change or destruction. This tells us that there’s no guarantee things will turn out in accord with your expectations, no matter how hard you try. Having expectations is like opening doors to disappointment. One is destined to be disappointed and go through emotional turmoil, once they let their externals determine the quality of the experience they're anticipating. Especially if one walks into an experience with higher expectations, their perspective is already blurred by the vision of those expectations coming true. If that isn’t the case, their whole mind is preoccupied with this one thing not working out, forgetting to account for every other ‘smaller’ thing that did go well. And what way of living is that, if you’re only focused on the negatives over the positives?

The same thing goes for people too. The moment you begin to expect people to move a certain way, present themselves a certain way, or show up to every self-imposed weight you carry, simply because of the relationship you share with them, or the role you’ve assigned them in your life, you’re quietly measuring them against an invisible set of constraints, and calling it love, loyalty, or even just ‘how it should be'. This obstructs the natural flow or development of the human connection with them. The human connection becomes diluted, full of judgment and prejudice. This is especially important to hold close when you’re thinking of the relationships that truly matter to you, because the ones you value most are often the ones you unconsciously place the heaviest expectations on. Would you rather burden your loved ones with constraints by stacking expectations and responsibilities so high they can’t possibly carry them, until the relationship begins to bend under the weight? Or would you rather offer them the full freedom of their choices and their ways of being, trusting the relationship to move in its own natural rhythm, and to build slowly, beautifully, authentically, and purely through time?

We can never make anyone act in accordance with what we want. That's where we question their free will. Everybody holds their own free will, the quiet right to prioritize one thing, one person, over another. And with that same will, they get to decide whether they still want to keep showing up in a certain role (either of a sister, a friend, a mother, or a daughter) in someone else’s life. Anytime they decide to change, they have all the rights to do so. Nobody is ever entitled to abide by your or societal expectations and rules. Implying that would mean you’re asking them to give up something fundamental: their basic right to freedom. You can always simply ask for what you want, or verbalize your expectations in that situation, understanding, of course, that you might be denied, or that your expectations may not be met. Accepting this simple fact will help you preserve your peace of mind and your relationships with your loved ones.

We often walk into romantic relationships thinking our partners will presumably fulfill all the ‘duties’ of a good, loving partner, whether that means solving our problems, meeting our emotional needs, or even magically subsiding that deep human, existential void within us. No human being can ever truly enter your inner world, let alone single-handedly influence the changes in your way of life, your thoughts, your values, or your beliefs. Placing those heavy responsibilities on them and expecting them to fulfill all of it to be deserving of your love, affection, or respect, is simply setting them up for failure. And we can all agree what a painfully conditional way of relationship that would be.
