---
layout: post
title: "Afterthought 3: Between Sunlight and Shadows"
date: 2025-12-15
--- 
Today, I slept well knowing my purpose in life is to simply be. What else is more profound in life than to experience? The only purpose shared by the entire humankind is to exist and experience. Setting aside all self-imposed responsibilities, all that is truly ever expected of you is to be aware and alive. The ego, however, wants you to have a sense of external purpose to fill the existential void, to feel important, and to give meaning to life (all of which are equally important in order not to lose your sense of direction; this very ego keeps you sane). But only, once you understand yourself beyond your ego, you'll find eternal peace. Oh what a freeing thought to know that your only purpose in life is to simply be.

Learning to detach yourself from your feelings and emotions and acknowledging them as a part of life is a skill, and mastery of that skill leads you to eternal peace. You should always want to want what is happening to you. That way you are always accepting of your situations and liberating yourself from misery, trying to contemplate a life 'that could be'; the life of your imagination. To deny a situation is to deny the universe. The universe exists and so does your situation. The very step to mastery of the skill is to not characterize any of your experience as 'good' or 'bad'. Every experience in life should be to take you one step closer to a life fully lived. Nobody can ever save themselves from their externals not working in accord to their wants and needs. They are externals, and not under our control. Running away from situations that do not necessitate our desires only opens doors to misery.

To have lived a life completely and fully, in every sense, you'd rather want to feel every single emotion to your bones, to visit as many places as you can, to eat every single food known to you, to try every single hobby, to read as many books, to go through as many heartbreaks, to meet as many new people, to feel guilt, shame, and remorse as deeply, to spend as much time with family and friends, and to experience as many failures. Closing yourself off to any experience is to deny yourself one more story in life. If you could only cherry-pick all the happy experiences in life and avoid pain, mystery, all together, you'd die without knowing what pain or misery is. What's the point of shielding yourself from 'bad' experiences when at the end, we all die the same? You'd rather wanna die knowing of every single emotion than not knowing anything at all. The universe has gifted us this human life to experience the full range of human emotions, and avoiding any emotion or experience feels disrespectful. Avoid emotions once you're dead, but when you're alive, feel as much as you can.

I now understand existing and experiencing is all that is expected of me. I am open to the highest highs and the lowest lows known to humankind. From finding the love of my life to having the worst heartbreak, from landing my dream job to being laid off, from starting a family to experiencing the death of a loved one, I want to experience it all.
