---
layout: post
title: "Afterthought 2: Echoes and Essence"
date: 2025-11-09
--- 
Everybody talks about young love, marrying young, teenage love, but nobody talks about old-age love. A love that has ripened with time. A quiet flame that never went out. A love that is prevalent solely because you respect your significant other's presence and admire their soul. No games, no manipulation, no competition, no lustful desires, simply consciousness of other people's energy and value they add to your life. You both had your own experiences in life, shared or unshared. Money, family, house, car vacations are now whispers of the past. Now, all that matters is a quality of time for the remainder of your life on earth. It's almost as a promise to take care of each other without any expectations. You both walk into this with wisdom that exceeds years of experience and a heart that yearns for love so pure, so serene, transcending all its worldly definitions. People romanticize young love to an extent that it has created an unspoken pressure to find 'the one' early in life. Oh what a freeing thought to realize you have all your life to find 'the one'. Oh what a freeing thought to realize you'd rather wait for years to find 'the right' one than investing all your time and energy into someone you cannot experience old-age love with.

I yearn for love so exquisite, so divine that it transcends all human expectations. A love that lingers even in their absence. A love that grows everyday. A soft, gentle love free from sexual desires and lustful thoughts. A love that feels like a promise, an unspoken whisper almost to be there for each other through health and sickness, through youth and old-age, through richness and poverty. A love that has seen it all, yet consciously decides to stay.
